Let us take a quick look at this VarHandle API.
Most of the time you will not need it because MethodHandle
already gives you access to methods and fields,
but VarHandle has a special functionality that we are going to see.
First, this VarHandle class is an addition of Java 9.
So if your application is Java 8 or before,
well, VarHandles are just not for you.
It looks like a MethodHandle for fields.
But as we saw it, a MethodHandle can already access a field.
It already gives you full access to fields, including private fields.
So the question is why VarHandles have been added to Java 9.
Well, in fact, VarHandle gives you three types of access to fields.
The first type is just the plain, regular access,
read and write to both public and private fields.
So this is already done in MethodHandles,
but it also gives you volatile access and compare and set access.
Those two kinds of access have to do with concurrent access.
Volatile is a concurrent notion,
compare and set or compare and swap is also a concurrent notion,
and this is what VarHandle brings to the table.
So in a nutshell, if you do not need this concurrent access,
then you do not need VarHandle. You can stick to using MethodHandles.